[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In "Echoes of the Soul,"
you talk about something that I
think so many people
are interested in today.
So let's start with the
most basic question.
What is a soul?
>> A soul is--
first of all, it's
made up of energy.
And it takes on many
different forms.
It's the part of
us that never dies.
It's the part of us that was
created a long, long time ago.
And we have the same soul in
every lifetime that we live.
And the purpose for
all of those lifetimes
is to help the soul develop
to its highest potential.
>> Now that's interesting to me
that you say we have the same
soul in every lifetime we live
because I would have thought--
correct me if I'm wrong--
when we die, our
soul leaves our body.
>> Yeah, it does.
>> So, if there
is reincarnation,
and we come back to
this Earth again,
does that same soul come back?
>> Yes, yes.
>> It does?
>> Yes, it does.
And the reason that
it comes back to Earth
is to, again, have another
life experiences so that it
can develop itself even better.
So each soul-- each
one of us has a soul.
And the soul is
continually progressing,
healing, changing, growing.
And yeah, it's always-- we
always have the same soul.
But, I mean, on the
one hand, I can say
we always have the same soul.
But, on the other
hand, I have to say
our soul is always changing.
So--
>> Well, it's
growing, as we are.
>> That's right.
>> Right, as the vessel
changes, then so does the soul.
>> Yeah, but we are
the same soul, OK?
I mean, we-- people
think that we
have different souls with each
lifetime, but that isn't true.
>> The work that you do
having to do with souls--
>> Yes.
>> --an ability
to talk to them--
>> Yes.
>> --an ability to
recognize them--
>> Uh huh.
>> --an ability to hear them--
>> Yes.
>> --when did you know
that you had this gift?
It's quite extraordinary.
>> When I was 17, we had a very
unusual experience in my family
where my brother saw
his guardian angel,
but he appeared just as a man.
He was a white floating form.
And I'm not going to go
into that whole story, but--
>> Well, you should because
it's an interesting story.
Please go into it.
>> My brother went downstairs
to practice on his drum set.
He was 14 years old.
I was 17.
We were all around
the dinner table.
We had just finished dinner.
And he went downstairs
to practice on his drums.
And he was in the beginning
stages of playing his drums.
So he sounded pretty
rough, kind of clanky.
And so he was downstairs
clanking away.
And, all of a
sudden, from the den
came this really, really
nice drumming music.
And we all looked at
my dad, and dad said--
>> As if he could answer
and explain what's that.
>> Exactly.
And dad said I don't know.
It must be the
record I bought him.
And so we all just sat there
listening to this music.
I bet you no one said a word.
It was just so
noticeably different
than what we were used to.
And after about two
or three minutes,
my brother came upstairs.
He was hysterical.
He could hardly talk.
And basically, what he kept
saying was did you hear it.
Did you hear it?
And we said, yeah, what was it?
And he said a white thing
floated through the door,
floated over to me, put its
hands down on top of my hands,
and played that music.
And he said I tried
dropping my sticks.
I had my eyes closed, but
I could still see him.
He said-- and after
about two minutes,
then it just backed
away from him
and floated through the door.
And that's when
he came upstairs.
My mom-- and this was in 1965.
So nobody talked-- well, at
least we didn't in my family.
We grew up pretty mainstream
like everybody else.
>> Yeah, very few people
were talking about things
we're talking about in 1965.
>> Yeah, and my mom was in
a prayer group at the time.
And one of the women
in her prayer group
had mentioned that she
had been to a medium
from England who was
living in St. Paul.
So mom called this
lady and said,
could you give me the
number of that medium?
We just had a weird thing
happen in our family.
Mom called the medium.
And she said this is May Bodine
and, and the medium said, yes,
Mrs. Bodine, I've been
expecting your phone call.
Your son just met his guardian
angel, Dr. Fitzgerald.
And she said I need to
see you and your children
for a psychic reading
because, she said,
you all have some
very unusual gifts.
And I need to tell
you about them.
And, about a week later, my mom
and I went to our first reading
with this woman.
And that's when
she told me that I
was born with psychic abilities,
both with clairvoyance, which
is the gift of
sight, clairaudience,
which is the gift of hearing.
And she said I was born
with the gift of healing.
>> Did it scare you?
>> Oh my god.
First of all, I said to her--
well, she said, excuse me,
you've come into this lifetime
to develop your abilities,
and then you will turn
around and teach others
how to develop theirs.
And I said to her
I don't have any
of these weird
things I just want
to have a nice, normal life.
I want to get married,
have a bunch of kids.
And she said--
I told her I wanted
to be a social worker.
>> Somebody has other
plans for you, Echo.
>> Yes.
And she said you didn't
come in this lifetime
to have a normal life.
You can do that
in your next life.
She said you've come
into this lifetime
to do some important things.
And she said your father is at
home with a migraine headache.
You go home and put your hands--
actually, she said
take out some hankies,
put them on your father's head.
And she said put your
hands on top of the hankies
and then ask God to channel
healing through you.
And she said and you'll
see what I'm talking about.
She said there's two
things I need to tell you.
It's God that works through you.
And always use white
hankies under your hands.
>> Did you know at the time
that your father had a migraine.
Did you mention it?
>> Well, you know, what was so
amazing about that is that that
day my dad had come home from
work with a migraine headache.
And, in my whole life
up until that day,
my dad had never had a
migraine headache before.
And my dad never got sick.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> So isn't that interesting
he had had it that day?
So she went on.
She said I would write books.
I would be on TV.
I would be known
throughout the world.
And I was a very
shy 17-year-old.
And I'm listening to this
woman thinking you're crazy,
you know?
I don't have this stuff.
I don't want this stuff.
And she said that--
she said you're so
sensitive, but you've learned
to cope with your sensitivity.
You've learned to cope with
your psychic abilities.
She said you've had
them all of your life.
You've just never had
them labeled before.
And so, when I got
home that night,
I took out a couple of
hankies, and I asked my dad
if I could try it.
And I put my hands
on top of his head.
And, after maybe five seconds,
they started to heat up,
but it wasn't my body heat.
It was very unusual.
It's like I could feel an
energy actually in my arms,
and it was coming
out of my hands
and just going into his head.
It lasted for about maybe
two or three minutes.
And then they cooled
off all by themselves.
And I took my hands off him.
And my dad said,
well, I'll be damned
if my headache isn't gone.
And that's kind of what
started the whole thing.
I ended up taking some
psychic development classes
from a psychic here
in Minneapolis,
a spiritualist minister,
and studied with her
for a couple of years and
developed my abilities.
And you know what?
The first time, Chantal,
that I saw a soul,
I was doing a healing
on a young man.
He was in a coma.
He was in the hospital.
And I was in his room.
I was channeling
this healing to him.
And it was just he
and I in the room.
Now he was in a coma.
He wasn't talking.
His head was all bandaged.
And, from behind
me, I heard a voice
saying would you please heal
the speech part of my brain.
So I just slowly
turned around to see
who was standing behind me.
>> And you were--
I want to get a picture of this.
You were in the
hospital room, sitting.
>> Standing over his--
>> Standing over--
>> Standing over his bed.
>> And you heard the voice?
>> Behind me.
And I thought OK.
>> Who's that?
>> Who is that?
It's just he and I in here.
So I just slowly turned around.
And there, just standing
up against the wall,
very matter of fact,
was a carbon copy
of this kid lying in the bed.
>> Now how clear was this?
>> As clear as a bell, as
clear as you are to me.
>> Really?
>> Except he had hair.
He didn't have
his head bandaged.
And he appeared in blue
jeans and a shirt, a t-shirt.
And I looked at him.
And I said, who are you?
And he said I'm the soul that
lives in that body just as
matter of fact as you can get.
>> But you weren't afraid.
You weren't uncomfortable.
>> Well, I was--
yeah, I was like whoa,
am I making this up?
I mean-- and I said, you're the
soul that lives in this body?
And he said yeah.
I said, well, why
aren't you in your body?
And he says, well,
when I leave my body,
then it doesn't feel any pain.
So I like to stay out
as much as possible.
And then, again, he said I'd
really like to speak again.
So would you work on the
speech part of my brain?
And I said sure.
I don't know where it
is, but I'll work on it.
And he says OK.
And it was just amazing.
He went into his body.
I saw him go right--
just right into his body.
His arm lifted up
like this and then
just dropped right
down on a certain part
of his brain on his head.
And then, when the nurse
came in, that was so funny.
The nurse came in,
and she said to me,
why did you put
his hand up there?
And I said I didn't.
And she says he's in a coma.
He didn't do that himself.
And I said he did.
And I said to her, where's
the speech part of his brain?
And she said right
where his hand is.
OK, so he actually went
back into his body,
showed me where to work.
Then she left the room.
His soul came out of the body.
Again, I saw it.
It just comes right
out and left the room.
>> How often do souls
travel out of the body?
And is there a particular time?
Like, of course, I go to I
guess they travel at nighttime.
>> Yeah, they travel at night.
Usually, every
night they go out,
but there are times during the
day when they'll go out too.
You know, when people-- when
you're talking to someone,
and they just look blank or
when somebody is daydreaming.
Or, oh, like sometimes,
when we're driving,
we're almost hypnotized.
The soul steps out frequently.
>> That would lead me to ask
you why does a soul travel.
What are their reasons
for leaving us?
>> So many different reasons.
You could have a loved one in
another part of the country
that you're concerned about.
And your soul will
go out from your body
and just go and check on that
person to see if they're OK.
Maybe you've got
somebody-- maybe
you've got a relative that's
dying in a different part
of the world.
And you're not sure,
oh, should I go?
Should I stay here?
How close are they?
And your soul might go out
of your body frequently
throughout the day
just to check in.
Are they OK?
Oh, wow, they're
not doing so good.
I better get to the hospital.
And then, all of
a sudden, you'll
just kind of come out
of this little daydream
and go, you know, I just
have a feeling I should--
Oh,
>> Interesting.
>> --I should get
to the hospital.
>> I should call somebody.
>> Exactly, yeah.
So our soul goes
out quite a bit.
Although, you know, we're
not conscious of it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Not too long ago, I was in
my local grocery store in Los
Angeles.
And I was standing in line, and
a woman came in with a baby.
It was the most adorable child,
like 9 months, 10-- you know,
they're not quite talking
and just wide-eyed.
And, as people are wont to
do, I looked at the baby.
And I said, well,
aren't you cute.
And I was so struck
by this child's eyes.
This child actually looked wise.
Was I looking at a baby
who was an old soul?
>> Yeah, you were.
>> It was startling to me.
>> I know.
They can be really startling.
You can see the
wisdom in their eyes.
>> Yes.
>> That's the eyes of their soul
that are looking back at you
because believe me, I've
seen babies that, you know,
when their soul has stepped
out for a little bit,
they're just like
this little blob.
And they just kind of sit there.
And then the soul goes in.
And, whoa, there's
all the wisdom.
And you can just--
you can see it in their eyes.
You can sense it in their being.
So I would say you definitely
ran into a very old soul.
>> You talk about an experience
in your book that is out
of body.
>> Yes.
>> What was that
experience like for you?
>> Oh, it was an amazing--
oh boy, it was an
amazing experience.
And the word amazing
doesn't even come close.
What happened was that
my brother Michael who
also has psychic abilities--
he and I have been a
brother-sister ghost-busting
team for a long time
because we both see souls,
and we communicate with them.
So we've gone into
a lot of homes
and cleared them
of unwanted ghosts.
And we had been on
a ghost-busting job
on a Saturday night.
And, the next morning,
I was out in my garden.
It was Palm Sunday.
And this was back in 1993.
I was in my garden.
And I was just talking
to God, just talking,
just having a conversation.
And I said, you know,
God, I would really
like to have more information
about the other side
because we send all
these ghosts over there.
Sometimes, they ask us
what it's like there.
And I said I've had little
bits and pieces when
I'm done a reading
for someone, but I
said I'd like to have a
whole bunch of information.
And I said, is that possible?
And I said I'm not going
to bug you about this.
This is-- I'll just ask this one
time, and then I'll let it go.
But I said, if I need to
do more to prepare myself
to have this knowledge,
then please help me
do whatever I need to do.
Chantal, never in my
imagination, never in my mind,
never anywhere did I think
that I would actually
have an astral projection
experience where I would
get to go to the other side.
>> You went to heaven?
>> I did.
And I thought that--
I thought that, when I
said that prayer that day,
what I mainly was
asking was could
I just receive
psychic information
about the other side.
Well, three days later,
I had this experience.
I don't want to go
into the whole thing
because it's quite
involved, but bottom line
is I didn't really understand
at first what was going on.
I kept seeing this blond
spirit in front of me.
I just kept seeing
the back of her head,
and she kept saying come on.
Let's go.
And I'd think, who is
this in front of me?
And go where?
And I'd just feel my
body kind of collapse.
And then a voice said--
a friend of mine was there.
He said have Neil call
your brother right now
and get him over here.
And so Neil called my brother.
And I just was sitting
on the couch like this.
And my eyes were closed.
And I could just see this
spirit right in front of me.
And my brother
walked in the door,
and that freaked me out too.
He walked in the door.
I hadn't said anything to
anyone about that prayer.
And my brother comes in, and
he looks at my friend Neil.
He said, three days
ago, she asked God
if she could have information
about the other side,
and they're going to
let her go over there.
So I'm going to sit and hold
her hand and ground her body.
He said, Neil, don't
worry about her.
She's fine.
And I looked up at him.
And I said, how do
you know all this?
And he said, what do
you mean how do I know?
They told me on the way over.
He said so, sis,
you go ahead and go.
And I'll hold-- and
I'll ground your body.
And that fast, I realized--
I mean, my whole body
just slumped down.
And I realized that that blonde
spirit in front of me was
actually my own soul because she
turned around and looked right
at me-- oh, it was weird--
>> Wow.
>> --looked right at me,
had these big brown eyes,
and said come on.
Let's go.
Just like that, and we
went through the tunnel,
went into the white light.
My grandma was standing on the
other side of the white light.
And I hadn't seen her since
she passed away when I was 14.
She looked great.
She introduced me to
a girlfriend of hers.
And her girlfriend said--
she looked at my
grandma, and she
said you didn't tell
me she was dying today.
And grandma said, well,
she's not dying dear.
She's just visiting.
And right then-- and
another angel came up to me,
and she said I'm your guide.
We don't have much time.
There's a lot to show you.
Let's go.
It just started, and she
just took me literally
on a 35-minute tour
of the other side.
And I just sat--
>> And is it light?
Is it dark?
Is it--
>> Oh, no.
It was beautiful.
You know, it continually,
everywhere I went over there--
and I went to a lot of
different communities.
Everywhere I went, it
reminded me of the TV
show the "Lifestyles of
the Rich and Famous."
It was just gorgeous.
I mean there's ponds and
little brooks and rivers
and just the most incredible
green grass you've ever seen.
And the flowers are all so--
everything is so
crisp and alive.
And everything was so fresh.
And there were all
kinds of souls.
I mean people everywhere.
And it was just
like being on Earth
except without the stress,
without the pollution,
without the garbage,
without the hassles.
It was-- I mean people
have homes there.
It's a whole life.
It's a whole other dimension
of what's going on here,
but it's going on there.
And it's on a much
higher vibration.
>> So, in essence--
>> It was amazing.
>> --you asked for insight,
and got an e-ticket.
>> Oh, did I ever.
And then I had to
come back to my body
because my body was
having a really tough time
without the energy of the
soul because the soul is
like the battery for the body.
>> I'm interested in how your
body felt when you woke up,
sitting on the chair,
holding your brother's hand.
>> It was terrible.
It was-- it took me
almost 20 minutes I think
before I could move my mouth.
I couldn't--
everything, my mouth,
my tongue was very thick.
And I couldn't move my legs,
and I couldn't open my eyes.
And my arms were really heavy.
And I thought, oh my god, I have
had a stroke while I was out.
You know?
And, my brother, he
was cool, though.
He could-- I couldn't talk,
but he could hear my thoughts.
And he kept saying,
sis, you're OK.
You're OK.
You just need more time.
And he was holding
my hand really tight.
And I could feel--
it was like he was giving me an
energy, or I don't know what.
I can't describe that,
but I was so grateful
that he was just
sitting there with me.
And then, after a
while, I finally
was able to get my eyes open.
And I just looked at him.
And I said, did
that really happen?
And he said, yeah, you really
went to the other side.
And it took me I bet
you at least an hour
just to, ah, there,
I'm back to normal now.
So--
>> You've spoken to souls
of people who are ill
or in a coma.
>> Yes.
>> What about someone
like me sitting here?
Could my soul speak to you?
Could my spirit
guide speak to you?
>> If she wanted to.
That's what's so
interesting too.
People will come for
a psychic reading,
and they'll say I want you
to communicate with my soul.
But it's like saying I'd
like to win the lottery.
You know?
>> It depends on if the
soul wants to talk to you.
>> Oh yeah, and, lots of times,
souls don't want to talk.
They're like, hey, this
is her thing, you know?
This isn't my thing.
And yet, other times, I'll
have a client sitting across
from me.
And my guides are
here, and they're
talking to the client's guides.
And, all the sudden,
the client's soul
will just pop right out
and sit right next to them.
>> Nick Bunick, who wrote the
introduction to your book,
can actually see spirit
guides of other people.
He can sit in a room and see
spirit guides standing there.
Do you have that
ability as well?
>> Yes, I do because
they're just souls.
You know, again, ghosts
are simply souls.
Spirit guides are souls.
We are souls.
>> Ah, that's interesting.
I thought there was a
difference between a ghost, who
you had to go into a house
and clear, and a soul.
They're the same thing?
>> They're just a trapped soul,
a stuck soul, earthbound soul.
See, and I didn't know that
either for a long time.
I don't know why I thought that.
I don't know what I
thought, but I just thought,
OK, a ghost is a spirit.
And then there's souls.
And then, just in communicating
with all these ghosts,
it's like the light
bulb went on one day.
And I went wait a minute.
You guys are souls too.
We're just all souls.
You guys are just stuck here.
And I realized that
we all have a choice.
And we can either stay
Earth-bound when we die,
or we can go on
to the other side.
>> It's sort of comforting to
know there are a lot of souls
time traveling around
us, isn't there?
>> Yes, and people
can see their guides.
You know, people always
want to know, well,
how can I get in
touch with my guides.
Can I see my guides?
The thing that they have
to remember the most
is it takes a lot of
patience because I
started taking psychic
development classes when
I was 17.
And I didn't see my first
spirit guide I bet you
until I was 25, maybe 26.
It takes time because it's very,
very, very light, very soft,
gentle vibration.
So it takes time.
Well, I'll look for mine.
>> OK, great.
>> I'll look for mine.
>> Oh, the other thing you
can do too is tell them I want
to know your name.
I want to be more
conscious of you.
Help me with this.
And some names will
pop into your head
over a day or two period.
And you'll start
to sense them more.
>> Great advice.
Thank you so much, Echo.
You're welcome.
>> What a wonderful
conversation.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]